import BlogLayout from 'src/components/BlogLayout';
import categories from 'src/categories';

export const meta = {
  title: 'Attainable Resolutions for the Year Ahead',
  author: 'Abhishek Chadha',
  publishedAt: 'Dec 6 2020',
  banner:
    'A reflection on the year gone and goalsetting for the one ahead. With planning, consistent hard work and a little luck, 2021 will be the year to unlock new doors and opportunities for growth',
  path: 'blog/12-20/my-resolutions',
};

Newton's first law applies to human behavior just much as it does to moving
objects: it is always easier to just keep doing what you already are doing are.
Changing and adjusting your behavior requires a deliberate application of force
and willpower which we are unwilling to do most of the time.

The goal of this post is to serve as a written record of my goals for 2021 so I
can build accountability around my targets.

<br />

##### 1. Focus on health and fitness

Over the last few years, my fitness has gradually declined. My mind rationalizes
this in all sorts of ways but really there is no excuse to be unfit at my age
(or any age really). The most important goal I have is to focus on my fitness.
The first aspect of this goal is to enforce a daily morning exercise routine for
at least 45 minutes.

The second aspect is to sustain my nicotine and smoke-free lifestyle for this
entire year. At the time of writing, I've been working out daily for 14 days and
been nicotine free for 121 days.

Finally, its also time I gradually adjust my diet and routine. I'm going to
sleep by 12 AM and be up by 7:30. I'm resolving to cook something everyday, and
introduce eat more vegetables and non-animal protein. Eliminating my weakness
for junk food will be important - ice cream, potato chips and other such items
will be a once-a-week treat.

##### 2. Invest in relationships

As an introvert, its hard for me to connect with new people and make friends.
While I seem gregarious enough at gatherings, I rarely go out of my way to
attend or plan them which makes meeting new people difficult. This year, I will
make a habit of meeting new people both online and offline. My strategy will be
to meet people online and offline through Lunchclub, going to meetups and in
general saying "yes" when it comes to hanging out. I will also make a concerted
effort not keep my cards as close to my chest as I usually do and open up more
with about touchy-feely topics.

##### 3. Read and write more

When I was in highschool I would devour books at a fairly rapid rate, around 2 a
month. As I grew older and busier, physical books were replaced by online
articles, podcasts and audiobooks. Over the last 4 years especially, my mental
diet has become full of empty calories and little protein. It feels like I live
on the surface and rarely dive deep into topics like I used to before. This year
I'm going to change all that by using my Kindle for at least 1 hour a day,
reading at least 1 book a month.

I also want to write 10x more than I usually do. Sowell said "the only way to
become a good writer is to keep being a bad writer and improving slowly". When
it comes to writing things down, I often fall into vicious cycles of
procrastination, perfection and paralysis. This year, I plan to overcome it by
writing a daily log (for myself), a monthly book report and at least 1 post
every week until writing becomes easier for me

##### 4. Build something cool and sell it

I've always enjoyed building things but I usually to take them through to
completion. My intrinsic nature as an engineer is to keep tinkering with code
for the sake of it even when it stops making practical sense to do so. Over the
last few years I have trained myself to take a more holistic viewpoint and
balance my desire for perfect code with just getting things out there. Done is
better than perfect and this year my goal will be to internalize this mantra as
I complete and publish the multitude of half-baked projects lying in private
GitHub repos.

This is also the year where I will build a commercially viable product and go to
market. While I have cofounded or co-created other ventures before, none of
those attained the product-market fit necessary for long term success. Although
there are never any guarantees, this year, I'm going to give myself a solid 6
months to build and launch something others are willing to pay for. The only
measure of success will be revenue and number of customers. This will be a
forcing function that gets me out of my comfort zone and helps me to take stock
of how I spend my time.

##### 5. Start a garden, pursue my hobbies and volunteer

I find it difficult to keep a pet given the traveling in my life so I've decided
the next best thing is to start a small garden. I currently have some space on
the roof of my building so I'm going to start a small garden to serve as regular
occupational therapy. I'll post regular pictures of my plants once the weather
has improved and I've had a chance to pot them.

In additional I've resolved to revive my old hobbies and take photos or make
origami at least once a week. I'll upload at least 1 new photo or paper model
every other week. Finally, it's really been too long since I dedicated my time
to helping others so I'm going to look for an interesting volunteer opportunity
and give it at least 2 hours every other week.

#### Conclusion

That's it for now - health, relationships, reading, writing, work, hobbies,
making oxygen for the world...it won't be easy but as Paul Graham once put it
best - boring progress makes for exceptional results.

export default ({ children }) => (
  <BlogLayout meta={meta}>{children}</BlogLayout>
);
